# Climate Claims Assignment
## October 24th, 2021
## ISCI 3A12
### Article Summery
Menton, F., 2021. Having Fun Watching Wind And Solar Failing To Step Up To Power The World Economy. [online] Watts Up With That? Available at: <https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/10/10/having-fun-watching-wind-and-solar-failing-to-step-up-to-power-the-world-economy/> [Accessed 22 Oct. 2021].

The #1 claim on my list is an article by Francis Menton called *Having Fun Watching Wind And Solar Failing To Step Up To Power The World Economy* (Menton, 2021). In the article, Menton states that it is obvious that solar and wind power generation will never supplant fossil fuels. His main arguments are the variability of wind and solar; wind producing 30-35% of its rated capacity and solar producing merely 20% of its rated potential (Menton, 2021). He illustrates that the global economy is rebound from the pandemic and simultaneously, there are less coal plants, nuclear plants, and fracking is banned. He then proposes the bold claim that solar and wind power are “useless when needed” (Menton, 2021). Clearly, these notions put forward by Menton are of interest; he tends to have radical beliefs that contradict what climatologists believe to be fact. After assessing this post, I have concluded that it is not credible and he presents rather weak arguments. One main flaw in the article’s credibility is the author’s past articles. For instance, one of his other articles is called *Useless Green Energy Hitting The Wall*. From assessing his past articles, it is clear that he has very radical views when it comes to climate change and green energy sources. In addition, Menton has no listed education in his “about” section with the Manhattan Contrarian, meaning he is not qualified to write about climatology. Because of this, it can be concluded that his posts are written through a biased lens and don’t seem to see both sides of an argument. Another flaw in his written that affects his viability is his lack of citations from peered review research papers that support his ideas. Most of his reference are quotes from other similar papers that have no research. Because of the lack of research, he has nothing to support his claims, just blank words, which has a massive impact on its viability. Another aspect I noticed in his writing is his narrow perspective, which entails that his writing is correct and all who oppose it is wrong. Because of this closed mindset, the content in his article is inaccurate. For example, when discussing solar power viability, he says: “with the sun, you know from the get-go that you will get nothing fully half the time (i.e., night); and cloudy days wipe out half and more of the remaining half, again at random times.  Averaged over the year, you’ll be lucky to get 20% of rated capacity from a solar facility” (Menton, 2021). Here we can see that his numbers seem to be inflated when it comes to the percentage of solar energy that can be collected. For instance, is most places, the days are longer than 12 hours. In fact, there are locations in Scandinavian countries and Iceland, for example, where the sun is visible for 20 hours a day on average, and doesn’t set in some months (Dey, 2021). He also didn’t consider the massive open spaces in places, such as the Sahara Desert, where there is a colossal amount of solar radiation in the day to off set the nights. Lastly, there are forms of geoengineering, such as cirrus cloud thinning, that uses drones to thin clouds that both allows heat to escape the Earth, and allow more solar radiation hit solar panels (Geoengineering Monitor, 2021). To conclude, due to this article’s biased lens, lack of scientific backing, flawed information, and the authors lack of experience in the field, it is not a credible source to be used in academia. 

# Works Cited
Dey, P., 2021. 6 places on Earth where the sun never sets! The Times of India. [online] 15 Sep. Available at: <https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/travel/destinations/6-places-on-earth-where-the-sun-never-sets/photostory/85897694.cms?picid=85897746> [Accessed 22 Oct. 2021].

Geoengineering Monitor, 2021. Cirrus Cloud Thinning (Technology Briefing). [online] Geoengineering Monitor. Available at: <https://www.geoengineeringmonitor.org/2021/04/cirrus-cloud-thinning/> [Accessed 22 Oct. 2021].

Menton, F., 2021. Having Fun Watching Wind And Solar Failing To Step Up To Power The World Economy. [online] Watts Up With That? Available at: https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/10/10/having-fun-watching-wind-and-solar-failing-to-step-up-to-power-the-world-economy/ [Accessed 22 Oct. 2021].


